[ELECTRONIC THEME MUSIC]
[CLICK]
MATT: So what do you think
the future holds for life?
ADDY: The future for life?
Global warming, Skynet taking
over, the human species just
being obliterated.
But on the flip
side we've got ES6,
so it's all going to be OK.
MATT: Everything
worked out great, then.
ADDY: It's going to be great.
MATT: Anyway, you were right.
ES6 is awesome.
ADDY: It is awesome.
MATT: I guess the one thing
is, at the moment, is you
can't just use vanilla ES6 in
the browser like, right now.
ADDY: We've been landing a
lot of ES6 features in Chrome
and V8 over the last
couple of years.
Other browser vendors have been
doing an amazing job of this,
too.
But we're not quite
at the point where
you can just use it in
production without requiring
transpilation.
And on that side of
things, a lot of people
probably need a good transpiler.
I think most people are
using Babel at the moment.
MATT: Yeah, that seems
to be the popular one.
ADDY: It's pretty legit.
And if you're using
Babel and you're
trying to get it into your
build process, what we probably
use are things like Gulp-Babel.
Just a few lines of
code, get set up,
it's very, very straightforward.
But I think you've
been playing around
with Browserify and
Babelify for bundles, right?
MATT: Yeah, so the
only reason I'm
using both is Browserify will
grab any of the imported files
and bring them all into
one, so that when you run it
through Babelify it's got
everything in one place
and it can just munge
it all together.
And that seems to
be working out OK.
One thing you see in
a lot of tutorials
is people will just say,
define your script file
and then run it
through Browserify
and then run that through Babel,
and then everything will just
work out.
And it's just for that one file.
And that's fine,
but the minute you
add another file for a
separate page or something,
everything just falls apart.
ADDY: Yep.
MATT: So I've had to do a
little bit of work there
where it's just like, I'm
using glob.sync to basically
just go through a set of
files in my build process.
And it looks for just .es6.js.
And those files will then
get run through Browserify,
and then once it gets
through Browserify
it gets sent through Babelify,
and then it creates the files.
ADDY: That's legit.
MATT: So I've got a nice little
workflow going right now, so
that I can just
write ES6 and then
everything's ready
for the server on ES5.
Good to go.
ADDY: Cool.
So the first step
is transpilation.
One thing we need
to do, usually,
is both lint our code
and style check it.
Now what I've been mostly
using for this stuff is,
I've used JSHint pretty heavily
in the past for code linting
and JSCS for code
style checking.
And JSCS 2.0 now supports
Babel, so you can style
check your code.
It also has a number
of ES6-only features,
which are kind of nice.
Like ES6-only rules.
So let's say I've
got some code that's
using string concatenation.
I can actually add a
rule to my JSCS config
and say, well, I
want that code to be
using template strings instead.
And then throw it a
little exception and say,
you should be using
template strings.
MATT: Nice.
So if you want to do
things like-- in this case
you could use the fat arrow
function force.start as just
a linting rule.
ADDY: Yes, exactly.
MATT: Nice.
ADDY: Which is kind of sweet.
On the linting side
of things, there
are a few people that have been
switching over to using ESLint.
ESLint is a tool by
Nicholas Zakas that
tries to combine some of the
features you'd find in JSCS
and JSHint, but one could
argue it's a little bit
more future-facing.
Tries to support ES6
a little bit better.
I still personally
use JSHint and JSCS,
but ESLint is really solid.
It's an option a bunch
of people are using,
so it's worth checking out too.
MATT: Yeah.
I've still just stuck
to JSHint and JSCS.
Logic is like, that's
what I'm used to.
The only thing you have to
do is add in the esnext:true
into the .jshintrc
and .jscsrc files.
So yeah, esnext: true, and
then all the linting rules just
started working.
Like, everything that it
was complaining about,
something just went away
and it's just like, oh, OK,
we're using a
class, that's fine.
There you go.
That has basically
been my setup process,
which has actually been fairly
simple once I got it all
set up.
The major feature
that I'm just in love
with is the fact
that you can have
a file with a
function or a class
and you basically
just define an export,
saying this part, this
function, or this class,
is allowed to be exported and
imported by another class.
And that alone, I've
just fallen in love with.
Everything to do with
ES6 Modules is fantastic.
Ability to import,
which means you can then
extend one of your classes
into the other one.
And then just all the
boilerplate for this
.prototype, just getting rid
of of that and just defining
a function.
Like, my code, I'm
so much happier
with how much cleaner it looks.
And because I come from a
bit of a Java background,
this is just so super
friendly to me, it's insane.
What are your favorite
features in ES6?
ADDY: I'm not gonna critique
you for Java too much.
But what do I like?
I like everything.
I kind of like template strings.
They're neat.
The shorthand object
literal stuff, super neat,
a lot less boilerplate involved.
I love computed property names.
Having that in the
language is amazing.
Fat arrows are neat, too.
WeakMaps.
WeakMaps and WeakSets.
But I did want to name-drop
one or two things.
MATT: Another name-drop, Addy?
Really?
ADDY: I know, you're shocked.
MATT: I'm surprised you're
not wearing a T-shirt
with said name-drop right now.
ADDY: No, no, I'm
wearing a T-shirt that
says Never Forget Floppy Disks.
Never forget.
So I've put together a
repo called ES6 Tools that
tries to summarize the
whole landscape of tooling
for ES6, ES2015, whatever
you want to call it.
It tries to capture stuff that
you need for Grunt and Gulp
and all the polyfills you need
and all that other fun stuff.
MATT: So it's kind
of like, depending
on what your setup is,
you could go to this
and it wil just list
down all the things
that will apply to you
right there and then.
ADDY: That's the idea.
MATT: Nice.
ADDY: But I also
wanted to mention,
there's two really
good books that
are free to read
online if people
want to learn more about ES6.
The first is Understanding ES6,
which I've been reading a lot.
It's by Nicholas Zakas
again, solid book.
And there's another one
called Exploring ES6
by Axel Rauschmayer.
Both solid books, both really,
really knowledgeable guys.
So yeah, people should
check those out.
MATT: Yeah, I loved it.
The amount of code that
you can delete just
from a ton of these features,
and the maintainability
feels so much cleaner
with this kind of thing.
ADDY: Yeah.
MATT: Absolutely love it.
For me, I think everyone should
be checking out ES6 and just
playing around with it.
Like I said, for me, it just
makes everything much more
like Java, which I love.
ADDY: What?
No.
No, we're taking
ES6 away from you.
No more Babel for Matt.
MATT: [LAUGHS]
[ELECTRONIC THEME MUSIC]
[CLICK]